# 4.1 Tuning principles

Tuning any system should follow some simple principles of which the most important is
change management as described below. Generally the first step in systems tuning should be
to analyze and evaluate the current system configuration. Ensuring that the system performs
as stated by the hardware manufacturer and that all devices are running in their optimal mode
will create a solid base for any later tuning. Also prior to any specific tuning tasks a system
designed for optimal performance should have a minimum of unnecessary tasks and
subsystems running. Finally when moving towards specific systems tuning, it should be noted
that tuning often tailors a system towards a specific workload. So, the system will perform
better under the intended load characteristics but it will probably perform worse for different
workload patterns. An example would be tuning a system for low latency which most of the
time has an adverse effect on throughput.

## 4.1.1 Change management
While not strictly related to performance tuning, change management is probably the single
most important factor for successful performance tuning. The following considerations might
be second nature to you, but as a reminder we highlight these points:
Implement a proper change management process before tuning any Linux system.
Never start tweaking settings on a production system.
Never change more than one variable during the tuning process.
Retest parameters that supposedly improved performance; sometimes statistics come into
play.

Document successful parameters and share them with the community no matter how
trivial you think they are. Linux performance can benefit greatly from any results obtained
in production environments.

